
## How can one build their own audience

So me building my own audience or any personal brand building your own
audience? And how can I do that? 

You have to start with giving something of value to your audience because you
are asking people to pay attention and you are asking people to pay you with
their contact details because they are giving away their privacy. So even
before people pay you for a course or a training program or a software, you
need to get them to **pay attention**. So you collect their contact details by
giving away something for free. I started my journey by giving away a free
digital marketing course and got people to sign up on my email list. I sent the
free course via the email list. And since it was valuable content, people paid
attention. And because I have their attention, I could sell something off, like
a premium product, like a course or something. And we take that revenue and put
it back into ads, not to advertise the product but to advertise the content
itself because we first need the attention of people. 

<details>
<summary>Further Discussion</summary>

But what if let's say tomorrow, as of today, I don't want to sell
anything. I don't want to sell my audience like a premium product. I don't have
it. Maybe tomorrow I will. But today I don't. But just to reach that point, I
need to nurture and keep sending them content again and again. Why?  

The way online attention works is that if somebody sees an ad, maybe they
remember it for like a second. If somebody visits your website, they probably
remember it for like a minute. If somebody opts into your email list and then
starts receiving content from you, they might remember you for a few days. So
within those few days, you need to engage them on a deeper level. For example,
like a live webinar. And if they have attended your live webinar, they will
probably remember you for the next 30 days. And within the 30 days, if you do
not get them onto a higher engagement, they will friend zone you. If you can't
monetize the attention, then you can't grow your reach. 
</details>


## Understand the mindset of your audience

So let's say today we have attention. But because of Instagram or because of
YouTube or because of Twitter, how do we monetize this attention now? First, is
to build the email list. 

That is the first step, particularly not a social media guy, because what I
feel is that people are bored and they just have a mobile phone in their reach,
and they make sure that they are not bored. So they are scrolling through
things. And it is said that **the doom of mankind will be scrawling**. There is
no limit to it. 

Whatever we do it's for dopamine, whether we do socializing or partying or
browsing through social media. So that is what Instagram and Facebook and all
the social media channels are capitalizing on. But as people's attention spans
go lower and lower, advertising on these platforms is also very difficult. They
don't pay attention to the ads either. There is automatic ad blindness, so
people just don't pay attention to it. 

So my goal is that how do you give people something to consume, which is
something like a one or two or piece of content. And people watching this
podcast may have that kind of attention span, but not everybody is like that.
And how do you make everyone pay that kind of attention? **You have to pull
them in with what they want and give them what they need**. It's like if you
have to become fit, you have to eat healthy foods. But even if you give healthy
foods for free, it's not like everybody is going to eat it. People still need
your junk foods, lays, pizzas and everything because it gives you instant
dopamine hit. So learn today's goal, at least, is to structure people's day in
such a way that they spend less time on social media and more time going
through courses, training programs and something that is in depth, something
that has an activity around it so that they learn in a deeper way, not just
glaze over motivational content all the time. 


## Make your purpose clear

Why do you say that they need to engage in a deeper level? Probably because
when they engage better, they learn better that's there. And they'll understand
it in a much better way. But how can you make sure with content you're giving
them something to engage as well?

Definitely **the end purpose of what they are learning needs to be made very
clear**. Like if I have a course, I need to convince people to buy my course
and I have to tell them what is the outcome of it. But if I have to get people
to watch a 1 hour video, I need to sell the fact that they need to pay
attention for 1 hour. So sales does not end with just selling the product. You
are continuously selling. The goal of copywriting, they say is that the
headline should make them read the first sentence, the first sentence should
make them read the second sentence, and so on. If you break that flow at any
point in time, you have lost it. So that is an art to engage people for a long
enough time to get them to pay attention and get them to think like, mainly.
That's what you are doing with long form content. You are getting them to
think. And that is not something that we can do by just giving them spoonfed
content.

And you can get people's attention to start there. But at the same time, you
need to bring them down your funnel. If somebody is subscribed to an Instagram
feed and every day they are getting what next. It's like you are getting the
phone number, but then you have to get to the date. You can't keep talking on
the phone forever. 

<details>
<summary>Further Discussion</summary>

So how do we get on date? Now that people are engaging with me on my Instagram,
what should be my next step? If you were at my place, what would you do? 

So what I would do is that I would do a mix of promotional and valuable
content. So valuable content is something that you give away for free. It could
be 80% of it. Okay. But 20% should be something to engage them on a deeper
level. So let's say you have written a book on public speaking. So you talk a
lot about public speaking. But you have written a book on public speaking, and
you want people to read that. So one out of five posts can be about getting
them to download the book and getting them to read that book, because that's
where the sophisticated audience is there. Like podcast. Obviously, podcast
listeners are sophisticated, and they go down the funnel. They buy the premium
products, they create a high quality community. So you need to filter out the
audience from social media. And let's say once they download an ebook, then
maybe they go ahead and get a course. And once they get a course, then maybe
they attend an online live workshop. Once they do an online live workshop,
maybe they come to an offline event and they meet in person. They become part
of a premium community, like a membership. And then eventually they become part
of your inner circle mastermind. And then you do, like a three day retreat,
like closed behind the doors in depth workshop. So my goal is to engage people
deeper and deeper that way. And not everybody is going to be at that level of
engagement. So I have 10,000 students in my training program, but I have just
30 people as part of a very premium exclusive mastermind. The kind of
challenges and the problems that we discuss about in that mastermind is on a
whole different level, which is probably not for everyone. So we need to build
that funnel. And also by building this funnel, you end up making a lot of
revenue. And I basically want to take that revenue and put it back into ads to
get people down the funnel. 
And that way, when you have figured out how to make
the maximum ROI out of the attention that people are paying to your content,
you can only do it if you have a funnel. And if you know how to generate
profits from it and then you reinvest the profits into Facebook ads, Google
ads, YouTube ads, wherever. Then basically the whole world is your content
marketing team. You are interrupting them while they are creating content. So I
don't want to scale content creation. I want to scale the depth of the content
that they go through, the depth of influence. 
</details>

<details>
<summary>Further Discussion</summary>

I have to get sick, but I've never thought of having a funnel. My maximum
funnel is. What I do is I ask people on Instagram first, like, do a 32nd thing.
Whoever likes it goes to my YouTube on YouTube. I make three different kind of
videos. So people who are coming on my YouTube, they're either coming to know
me in a better way or they're coming to get the same kind of thing in a much
longer version. Right. So I make blogs so that whoever's just for
entertainment, watch that blog and walk away. But whoever is there for a deeper
value, I make five things to do this. Seven things to do this. Ten things to do
that's like the front of the funnel. Yes. Actually do the seven things. Seven
things, five things they watch that. Then I want those people and I suggest
them to watch to my podcast because I know that somebody who has come from,
like, 30 seconds to ten minutes now from ten minutes, they'll go to 30 minutes. 

But I want them to actually engage in a much, much deeper way because I believe
that as a content creator, I'm not just in the business of disseminating
information or delivering content, because what is the purpose of the content?
The purpose of the content is to bring a behavior change or a transformation in
the audience. So if you can make sure that people transform with your content,
then that's how far you push the content, too, because the content is to get
attention. And if they engage on a deeper content. So let's say you give six
tips for productivity. People need to learn that and people need to actually
implement it. But right now we are just praying that okay. Some people will
implement it. Some won't. But can you figure out a system to actually get
people to implement it? That happens with deeper and deeper engagement. 

And to some extent, it happens only if people pay. Like, for example, if I give
you a free gym membership, you might not go to the gym, but if you have paid
for the gym, then you will go every day because you have paid for it, and the
value you extract out of it will be more because you paid for it. So imagine
the exact same content. Like, let's say people have to pay $100 to listen to
this conversation. They will automatically feel that this is of more value. And
this has been done in experiments where the same wine was delivered in Crystal
glasses and rich glasses. And people thought that this wine actually tastes
better. So you need to get people to pay for content is what I believe to
really get them to pay attention. 
</details>


## Get paid for your content

The amount of attention you're going to get from someone directly
depends on how much is he earning and how much is he paying out of the money,
which he's earning? From the gym membership. Someone who's, like, really rich,
wouldn't even go after paying a gym membership, but would go if you pay for a
personal trainer every day.

So the amount they've paid if it's directly affecting their regular income,
then they actually pay attention and actually get to do things which for free
they wouldn't.

That's true. But at the same time, people who actually pay for a gym and don't
show up at the gym, they subsidize the cost for the people who show up
regularly. So when you get people to pay for content, it pays for your time,
your team's time and everything. And they also end up subsidizing the free
content that you create for the wider audience. 


## How do you filter out what to give for free and what not to?

So the basic formula for that is that you **teach them the what for free, and
you charge for the how**. Okay. So if it is digital marketing, so I teach
people for free in my free webinars that hey, you can do freelancing. You can
do affiliate marketing. Look at these case studies. These people are making
money with affiliate marketing, so I get them excited. So they need to know
what they don't know first. So that can be given away for free. And that should
also be designed in such a way that it creates an itch for them to learn the
how. The how is a more comprehensive part. And even if you give the how away
for free, nobody is going to pay attention to it. 

So people value what they pay for. But if you have figured out the funnel
properly, then you don't need to do organic content at all. You need to do
content. But the purpose of the content is not to attract people, but the
purpose of the content is to convert them from a cold audience to a warm
audience. So if you purely look at it from a marketing perspective, then that's
how the funnel should be structured.

------------------------
But here's the contradicting part, I don't feel that attention span is going
down. I feel attention span is there only it's just the ability to judge the
content is getting quicker because there's so much content available that
people don't want to waste their time, even for 10 seconds to watch a bad
content. So they have the attention like people can watch at our straight
Netflix series, they will binge watch it. If they have the attention
deficiency, they wouldn't be able to watch it. The point is, they don't want to
waste their time on bad content. So I think the attention span is not going.
It's just the ability to judge content is getting quicker.

Yes. But even if you have very good content. But if that content is more like,
let's say there is a two hour video on how to change your thought process. Or
let's say how to do scientific thinking. And what is the scientific thinking
method? There doesn't seem to be any very quick take away from it. Netflix is
different because it's entertainment, people get hooked onto it and then you
have Cliffhangers and you have multiple episodes. It's like a soap opera and
everything. But if it is like learning stuff like learning something new, it
has become more like infotainment because people get the satisfaction of having
grown on some way with respect to their professional skills. But it's not like
they have actually put it into practice because certain long form content ask
you to take action on it. Like Netflix doesn't. So that attention span is
something that you have to hack into. You have to convince people to spend 2
hours with you. Like, for example, if there is a course on how to reduce
weight, there are plenty of people who want to reduce weight. And if it goes
into the science of how insulin works, how your cells absorb insulin, how your
body develops insulin resistance because you are always having blood sugar.
It's very difficult for people to pay attention to it. Rather than going
through that in depth understanding, because once they go through an in depth
understanding, they don't need to remember anything.  It's like you have
expanded your mind and your understanding on a particular level. Then that
never shrinks. That takes effort that takes willpower just like fitness. You
can't just do small exercises like that you see on social media. Sit in this
position, this that you really have to push it and that's difficult to get
around to. And that's true transformation. And trying to get that through
transformation to people is the the biggest challenge in the content industry
today 

------------------------
But that's how human beings are. It's not the challenge of content. I think
it's challenge of everyone. That's how we've been born and brought up. We value
things which give us dopamine. So I think it's job of a content creator to make
sure that you need to mix education and entertainment, or maybe education with
something which is giving the dopamine release when people are consuming,
because it's just how human beings are. Whether you are a studious person,
let's say you're a Bookwarm. There are people who study and then they get in a
loop of just study. They go from one degree to another to another to another to
another because reading that one book gives them sense of achievement.
Everybody knows that reading is a way to enlightenment. Reading is the way how
you accumulate wealth reading is all the way, but only reading is going to take
you nowhere. So at the end of the day, the content is always going to be like
that. It's the job of a creator to actually help release that dopamine with
action also, or else you won't be able to. 

So very interesting point where I would like to bring in the concept of delayed
gratification. So if you have heard about the Stanford experiment where kids
were there and you give one marshmallow to a kid and tell him that you can wait
for ten minutes and get two marshmallows, or you can eat the marshmallow
immediately. And then that's done like you won't get the second marshmallow.
They attract the people who waited for the second marshmallow over a period of
30, 40 years became very successful in life because they had that patience. And
they had that readiness to have a delayed gratification. So just for an
example, let's take my own training program in that there is a two hour module
on Facebook ads. It teaches you how to set up your own Facebook ad. And we know
that if we just give a two hour module, not everybody who came into the
training program is going to finish watching it and not just finish watching
it, but actually set up a Facebook ad themselves so that they don't forget
about it. So we provide a cashback. So we hack into that behavior and that cash
back is the dopamine, because if they finish it off, then there is an instant
reward, and then there is a long term reward as well. So imagine that I will
give you like Rs1000 every day you show up to the gym. But the one year
subscription is Rs65,000. But every day you come to the gym, I will give you
like 1000 rupee cash back. So now I am hacking your behavior to give you that
instant dopamine. But I am getting you to do something which will have a
delayed gratification, which you might not have the motivation for because it's
very delayed. So that way you are forcing people. So until the last moment like
the deadline, people are not doing it. And in the last 6 hours it's like the
11th, they go say they watch the entire video, they watch it two times, three
times if they want, and then they actually implemented, because if they don't
do it, they will lose the cash back. 

So this is similar to cred. So cred motivates you to pay your bills on time.
And it's not much. Our life is not going to change with 20 Rs30 per month. But
even if it is RS5, there is a positive behavior change and you get it done. So
that is how you hack this whole Dopamine effect and still try to get people to
consume in depth content. 

## Law of Large Numbers

With your experience in digital marketing, you have been experimenting a lot of
stuff, how to make more and more people click how to make more and more people
buy this one particular product. Reach more people. Is there some common trait
which have observed that this is how humans are or this is how tier one people
are or tier two people are kids are. Is there like something which you have
observed, which is fascinating. 

So the conversion ratios will have a trend with tier one, tier two, tier three
cities, the age group and everything. But what is most fascinating that I have
observed is something called **the law of large numbers**. And what it says is
that with large numbers, numbers will start giving you a sense of
predictability. So if I roll the dice, what is the chance that it will show a
one, a five or a six? It is just 1/6. But how do you try to predict what it
will give you? You cannot predict it with one dice roll. But let's say I give
you an option to roll the dice 600 times. You can for sure say that it will be
around 90% to 110%, or 95% to 105%. That approximately 95%. I will get like, at
least 95%. I will get one another 95%. I will get two. So this is the law of
large numbers. So when large numbers are coming into play, a very random event
can start giving you predictability. 

So let's say murder rates in New York, murder is such a random thing. Like
there are different types. Somebody is angry with someone like somebody ends up
murdering someone. But New York May, over a period of ten years, the annual
death rate due to homicide was around $400 to $600. So on the 11th year, you
can tell that. Okay, at least there will be 300 murders with surety, because
it's just the law of large numbers. So that way when you try to build a digital
marketing funnel, you end up knowing that. If you have ten vistas on the site,
sometimes five might opt in. Sometimes two might opt in. Sometimes eight might
opt in. But if you have like, let's say 10,000 vistas and you've got 2000
people to opt in or 3000 people to opt in, you can say that the conversion
ratio is 30% and then you know that. Okay, if I get 10,000 more clicks to the
web page, then I will have at least 30% of them convert into leads and from the
leads, maybe another 5% will convert into customers. Those 5% may, another 1%
might convert into Upsell customers. So this is the total profit I will make.
So it helps you build a predictability engine. 

And there is a very interesting story about Target doing this law of large
numbers and predictive analytics. That's what the field is called. And Target
ended up tracking purchase behavior. And they predict. Like what category
people fall in and then they go ahead and send them more coupons and offers to
their address to get them to bring them back to Target and purchase more. So
they started noticing that people who are about to give birth to a kid, they
are always buying a certain set of products like, let's say, cocoa butter,
cream, all those things. So one lady was shopping and her dad did not know that
she's about to give birth to a baby and she started getting coupons in the
mails for more such products. And her dad ended up knowing that. Okay, this is
what is going on. And Target got sued for it and everything. So that is the
power of predictive analytics. You can actually predict things when the scale
is large. And that's what we do with digital marketing. 

So even like, let's say somebody is starting up, who is doing something, who
wants to build products and start digital marketing. They need to go with large
numbers in order to build a predictive analysis. And they need to understand
these stages of the funnel very well. They need to look at what is the cost per
click I'm paying. What is your revenue per click? What is your revenue per
visitor? If you get the math right now, then scaling is just a matter of
adding.

<details>
<summary>Role of Human Beings</summary>

Do you think all of these things will be relevant now in future as well or all
of this once the AI fits in? Do you think all of this person who's doing all of
this is going to be relevant as well? 

See, I believe that content, communication and things like that can always only
be done by humans like new ideas, sharing new ideas. AI cannot replace that.
But AI has actually started having a lot of applications in digital marketing.
Like, for example, earlier we used to manually optimize the Google ad
campaigns. We would increase the CPC. We would look at what rank it has, and
then we'll try to reduce the CPC. We will see how it affects the conversion
ratio on the landing page and everything. But now you can put a daily budget
and you can say that, give me leads at 20 Rs per lead. It will automatically
adjust the CPC for you. It will try increasing. Then if the conversion becomes
less than it will try reducing if it reduces to less than the quality might
reduce. The leads might not convert. So that kind of AI definitely has come.
It's like you can have a self driving car, which is AI to take you from one
place to another. But where to go is something you have to decide. 
</details>

## Making people feel connected

So how can you make sure that people come up with better ideas and they become
more creative? Is there a field of study which people can come up with because
it cannot be completely random? 

It's definitely not random, but at the same time, it's very far away from
fiction when it comes to fiction, storytelling, poetry. These areas of
creativity, including painting, are completely different. 

The kind of creativity that we are talking about when it comes to digital
marketing is very much scientific in the sense. If I have to come up with an ad
copy, there are two ways to come up with an ad copy. One is that you are trying
to join the conversation. The prospect already has in their mind. And then you
are like pulling them in or you are trying to distract them with something
flashy, like something shocking that gets attention. But it also loses
attention very fast. So if somebody is having a question like, hey, how do I
become a digital marketing freelancer? That is the question that I am going to
answer in the ad copy. And if you are joining the conversation that the
prospect already has in their mind, then it's very easy to get their attention,
finding out what they have in their mind. There are a lot of creative ways to
do it. Like you can talk to them. You can interact with them. You can run, like
a survey or a form. You can look at their online behavior. What are the
keywords that they are clicking on? If you are sending out an email, you can do
a split test. You can see what words actually match better and what, rings a
Bell. 

So basically what we do is that with our sales pages and copywriting pages, we
pick out words from interviewing customers, and we basically use the same words
from the landing page so that they feel they connect. 

Can we do that with the content as well? whatever they are commenting, we can
pick up words from that, use those words in my content so that they feel more
connected. 

Yes, definitely. Because as content creators, we keep creating content.
Sometimes we start losing touch with how the audience is feeling about it. And
that is where having real interactions with your audience is very important
because let's say you are talking about something and you are talking to a real
person. If the real person is not so interested, they will just walk away. It
will actually make you feel very bad. But it might be happening with your
online content. Like, so much. But you might not be knowing about it. Right. So
you need to ring that Bell in their head by talking about the right things.
Like, the best example of it is AMUL. Amul is creative. But it's also going
with the current trends. And there is a scientific way to choose, like, what
should we draw about? What should we create an ad about? Because it's very,
very something recent happened and they have a creative angle of it. 

------------------------
When you say scientific way, scientific way. What do you exactly mean by this?
Is there, like, based on psychology or based on certain aspects of certain
studies? Are there rules to play by?

Basically numbers driven. For example, when I read Four Hour Work Week by Tim
Ferriss, he talked about trying to come up with a very creative book cover,
which will perform very well. So how do you come up with a very creative book
cover, like creativity. It could look funky. It could try to get your
attention. But what you estimate will get attention and what actually gets
attention out there will be two different things. So what Tim did was that he
ran Facebook ads with four different book covers, and he saw which got, like,
higher CTR. And then he took that and he actually made it into the book cover
of his real book. So there is a scientific way to it. You look at the data and
you look at what people are responding to. And from there, you take it deeper.
I think Cambridge Analytica did it and got into soup. So this is obviously like
a superpower. You need to use it very carefully. And you can experiment with
the titles as well. Right. Rather than trying to run a poll with your audience
on YouTube, like, just put and ask people to vote. Instead of that, you can
actually see people's behavior like run an ad with four different titles. If
you run an ad with four different titles and four different bookcars, you have,
like, 16 different variations. But you could get that data and use that data
and basically built on top of it. 

So that's how I have built my business. The first course that I launched was
Google Ads course. Before launching that course, I had a community. So digital
deepack has become part of learnt today now. And at that time it was just
digital deepak and we had a group on Facebook. We just had 2000 members. Today
we have 200,000 members in that group on Facebook itself. And we just ran a
poll like, I'm planning to launch a paid premium course. And what do you like
to learn about the most Facebook ads? Google ads, SEO, blogging. People voted
for Google ads the most. So I created a course on that. And I sold the course
even before the course was created.

And I was like, if enough pre orders don't come, then I will cancel the project
and refund everyone if actually people buy. So I was expecting 50 sales, but I
got 250 sales. Then there was no other way I had to do it. 

------------------------
Like anyone who is like an Instagrammer could have a freelancer working for him
who can just basically put it on an Excel sheet and put out all the content
that he has created in a month. So how many likes it got, how many comments it
got and then basically analyze why this got, like, higher reach, or maybe this
performs well. So I will do more of it. So it's a continuous process of
optimizing optimizing to basically make it land with the audience in a very
good way. And I think that's what stand up comedians do. Right? Stand up
comedians write a lot of jokes and they try it with smaller audiences. Some
jokes don't land and they start eliminating them. Some jokes land, and they
start repeating more of those jokes. And eventually, when they go for their big
event, it's all a collection of the jokes that work with smaller audiences. So
that's exactly what you do. Like when I create a training video module before
creating the training video module, I actually do a live presentation to a
small audience of 100, 200 people, and I asked them, Is there anything else to
add? Do you have any questions? And in that the content takes a structure. And
then I use that structure to create the final video. So there has to be a
product market fit for every piece of content that you create, because the
content is the product. They talk about product market fit for products. But
each and every piece of content is a product that has to be a fit. 

That makes sense. But what about the product market fit? The content is
product. And once people consume it, there's nothing. There's no revenue,
there's no monetization. What after that? Let's say people don't want to make
courses. What can an average content creator can do?

So that might be harsh to say that. But if people don't figure out a way to
make revenue with their content, the attention of the people will shift from
them to the people who can figure out how to make revenue with their content.
So that's the only thing that is going to happen, because when you look at the
entire competition out there among creators, the creator who will end up
getting the maximum reach is the creator who has figured out how to make the
most revenue out of, let's say, one man minute of attention, because now he has
more leverage and he can apply that leverage to create more content if he
wants. And that is why content marketing is so popular right now. And this is
also something I felt about news publications. Right? So you have TV, radio,
newspapers and magazines. And these were separate businesses of their own
because it was such a complex thing to run a business which is like a
newspaper. You need distribution magazine, you need printing for radio, you
need frequencies for TV, you need satellites. So publications thrived because
there was this small channel of connection with the outside world and
advertisers who are like merchants, product creators. They had no other option
but to go through these publications to reach the audience. So there was a
premium there. But now the floodgates have been opened. Anyone can become a
content creator, so you cannot really make revenue from advertising anymore.
And we are seeing that happening. Right? I won't name the publications, but we
know the usual suspects. All the publications in India, who are very reputed
publications, sometimes more than 100 years old. If you look at their site,
it's completely filled with ads. And they are trying to make revenue out of the
ads to support the journalism. And now many people have also tried getting
people to subscribe for their journalism. And I don't think that has gone very
well. And people won't subscribe to ten different publications. At the same
time, people are looking for free content. So that way, since it has become
difficult to monetize the attention, one of the best ways to monetize the
attention right now is to sell your own product or service. Like, for example,
let's say Amazon such a big ecommerce store, but they own a lot of content
properties. Like, for example, Dppreview. Com. Dpreview dot com is a digital
photography review website. And from there they link back to Amazon to purchase
the digital cameras. So that is the way they monetize the content. So after
content, if there is no product to sell, then you are trying to make revenue
from advertising. It's like you are getting the attention. But then you are
trying to pass on the attention to someone else and how much the prospect
trusts you, he might not trust them directly. So the ads are not going to
perform well. So that way, if the product creator itself is getting the
attention via content, then that is going to be an easier conversion.

Like, for example, look at Clear Tax. Clear Tax has so many page views, I think
more than 3 million page views a month. It is almost two X to three X of many
startup publications in India. And how do startup publications try to make
money through ads? How does Clear Tax make money because they get customers
directly for their software so they can afford to invest so much in content
creation. So now they are getting a bigger pie of the attention that is out
there. 

------------------------
What other relevant questions a content creator needs to ask themselves in
order to build products. 

So I would rather look at it as content being a means to an end rather than
content creation just for the sake of content creation itself, because content
is what attracts attention. But at the same time, what after that is something
that you have to start with. Like, for example, there are push up boards in
Amazon. They sell for around 400 to Rs500. One of my friends started DTC
Ecommerce Store and he's selling the same pushup board, almost the same quality
and everything. But he's able to sell it for Rs1200. But what he has done is
that he is also bundling a course along with it on how to build your upper body
strength. So when it comes to digital products, especially courses or SaaS
products, it doesn't take any money to replicate it. Right. So I can create a
course for RS5000, and I can give an athlete Commission of 100% on the 5000 RP
course because it doesn't cost me money apart from some server cost to actually
spread it. So that way, when content creators approach it with an end in mind,
then there is a way for you to make sure that the content thrives. If you don't
get paid for the time that you invest in creating content, how will you create
more content?

------------------------
So now next time we're doing podcast, we're going to sell mics along with the
podcast course. 

Yeah. Podcasting course, It's such an in demand course. Right. So you could
convert all this attention into money by selling a podcasting course, it will
give you more revenue. And then you can put that revenue into more content
creation, maybe more team members, maybe more graphics. Maybe you can boost
some of your videos if you post it on YouTube. I'm pretty sure that you are not
running YouTube ads. But what if you have the revenue to run YouTube ads and
get a wider reach, then you are getting more of that attention. 

------------------------
But isn't it that if you pay to get reach, your organic reach dies? 

Not necessarily because you don't pay to get reach for advertising your
products directly. You pay to get more reach for your content itself. And if
people engage in that content, organic reach will actually go up. Let's say
there is a YouTube video and it's a ten minute YouTube video and my channel is
not that famous and there is no user signals for YouTube to take those signals
and start boosting it. So if I run ads for it and let's say if it gets like
50,000 views now YouTube has data to work on like YouTube will see that. Okay.
Engagement is high. The amount of people going to the end of the video is high,
so they will start recommending it more. The algorithm will start recommending
it more. So having content and then having a paid marketing budget behind it.
It's basically like putting fire to cotton. It kind of gives you that more
reach. 

And I used to think like this. Like, for example, if you are a real estate
person and you want to become a real estate mogul, what you would do. You would
try to acquire more and more properties over time. It's not like you build a
building, make profit out of it, take that money and put it into crypto or
stocks or whatever. You would obviously try to buy more land, build more
projects and the amount of properties that you have will expand and expand. And
you will become a very rich person because real estate is limited, just like
Bitcoin. You have only so much beachfront properties. You have only so much
land. That's always the limited quantity that was there. So I used to think
that if I want to own more of the Internet, then I need to create more content.
But creating more content is unlimited. It's like the meta verse. There is
unlimited amount of pages that can be published on your blog. Like my blog can
have like a million extra pages that doesn't necessarily own more of the
internet because there are so many pages on the Internet. What is really
limited when it comes to Internet is the attention and you have maybe 3 hours
of attention per person on average that they will look at screens and browse
through the Internet. Can you own more of that? That is the way you have to
approach content creation because you just have limited attention. How do you
get more of that attention for yourself rather than the attention leaking to
somewhere else? When you look at it, that way, then it takes on a whole
different meaning on what kind of content you create. How do you engage them?
And for me, at least the idea is to always take away people from social media
sites to my own platform, to my own app, to my own website, to my own email
list. So that way they are in my ecosystem. 

If you don't own your email list and you don't own a direct connection to your
audience, you are on a platform, the platform gives you reach, and it's up to
that platform to limit your reach. So if you want the users to be your users,
they are not just going to be following you. On a social media platform, you
need to have their contact details, which is to start with the email ID.
Because the Instagram users sign up with their phone number and email ID.
Right. The Instagram of the data, they own the audience. You don't own the
audience. So how do you own the audience? So today the Internet economy gives
us an opportunity to even compete with Facebook or Instagram directly by
creating your own app and your own platform.

------------------------
How do you get more attention? 

So one way to get more attention is to create more content and create content
in such a way that it is trending. And if you create some content that is
trending right now, people will pay you attention. But the problem with that is
that let's say nine gag gets a lot of attention. You cannot convert that
attention into money because it is purely entertainment. News, to some extent
is also entertainment. So you can come up with something that is latest, which
is a news. But the problem is that news is something that gets tail very fast,
It's like bread. What you need to do is that you need to create content that
ages like wine, like, for example, even today we have Shakespeare's content. So
it's like perennial content, perennial seller. It keeps selling two decades. So
the way I'm looking at content creation and getting attention is that create
content that has a very good value over the long term that the content is
relevant even after ten years that they go through. But at the same time,
instead of trying to get people's attention on social media, get them onto your
platform. So, for example, I give a free digital marketing course. And instead
of creating a lot of digital marketing videos and putting it out there, instead
of creating 200 pieces of content, I just have 25 videos. So for these 25
videos, the content is in sequence. And you need to get people hooked onto the
sequence, and then you can get the people's attention throughout the entire
sequence. Like, for example, Sacred Games doesn't need to advertise each and
every one of their episodes. They just need to get you to watch one episode. So
create content in sequence and structure in such a way that people can get
hooked onto it. And then you got more of their attention. So if you have ten
videos in a series and each video is 15 minutes long, you just need to get
people to watch the first 15 minutes video and they are hooked to it, and then
they will go all the way to the end. But at the same time, since now you are
creating less content. How do you get attention to the first piece of content?
Is that you run ads for it, and you can afford to get that attention by
basically interrupting while other people are delivering the content, you can
interrupt with a YouTube preroll ad. Why? Because you can afford to. And how
can you afford to by And towards the end of that funnel, you get them to pay
and you put that back into ads. 

So as I said, if you figure out how to make money from the attention that
people give you, then the whole world is your content marketing team. You don't
need to create content.

------------------------
What is learned today about? 

So learntoday is an etc platform. And the tagline for Learn today is get paid
to learn. So we literally pay people to learn. And the flagship training
program that we have right now. So we just have one course. We have trained
more than 10,000 students in this course. It's a digital marketing training
program. It's a three month program with twelve main weeks and four bonus
weeks. So every week people have to go through the training program. They have
to do an assignment. They have to submit the assignment. And if they submit the
assignment, they get a cash back. The cash back is there to motivate people to
learn. Okay. So this I started even before Learn Today was born as a minimum
viable product. And at that time, things were all over the place. We tried to
do manual payments. There used to be payment failures and everything, but now
we have created an automated system where you come in, you have a learning
management system, you watch the video, you do the assignment, and then you go
ahead and submit the assignment. The assignment gets approved and the money
comes to your bank account. So it's a completely smooth process. So that is
what Learned Today is about as of now, and we are a bootstrapped company, and
we like to grow slowly and that way, instead of trying to have more products,
we just optimized one single product as much as possible and try to get more
students enrolled in the same product. And in the long term, we do have an
ecosystem coming up. So there is something called Hire today.com that we have
acquired. And whoever goes through Learn Today course will get an opportunity
to list their profile on Higher today, which will be like a candidate search
engine. And then we are going to come up with a job application portal called
Apply Today and basically get people to apply jobs for jobs. And let's say 500
people apply for an SEO job. We will give them an exam and let's say only five
people pass it. So the 495 people, they will recommend them an SEO course from
our platform because you need to create the edge before you sell the lotion. So
you need to know what you don't know, and that will happen only through an
exam. And actually, I have a lot more things in the ecosystem. I have things
like toystoday.com like eventually, long term. If we try to go into the school
and children's category. So we have a bunch of long term dreams. But as of now,
Learn Today is a platform for learning digital marketing, at least as of now.
Maybe in the future it becomes a platform for learning multiple things. But
people learn digital marketing. And in digital marketing they learn traffic
generation, how to build trust with your audience and how to do sales. And
these topics will never go out of fashion. How to do sales. Everybody wants to
learn to sell better. Everybody wants to learn how to market better. Everybody
wants to generate more traffic. So yeah, that's what Learning Today is about. 

------------------------
On that note, I feel I'm a terrible salesman. I just have this feeling that I'm
very bad with sales. That's why I over deliver with content. So most of the
strategies inbound rather than outbound. I know for a fact that I can't go to
someone, look them into eye and try to close the things. I am a person who will
be like, okay, here are ten things with which I can help you with. These are
the things whether you like it or not, if you like it, great. Come walk with me
or as I move on to the next thing, I keep adding to that funnel more so that
there's a content overload and out of ten things which I'm offering at least
one day. Like, if not, I'll build ten more. Yes, I'll build ten more out of 100
somebody something will like. That's my approach to the sales. 

So when it comes to sales, there is a very interesting thing that I noticed
that most of the sales, at least in India, is very push based. So salespeople
try to go ahead and push for sales, and they try to basically fit the product
into the customer's requirement when the customer's requirement is not very
clear or when there is not a very clear need for that sale. So let's say I come
to you and say that. Okay. I'm asking you a lot of questions. I am selling you
my digital marketing agency services, and I'm asking you how much revenue you
are making right now. Let's say you say I make X amount of revenue. Then I ask
you, how would you like to make ten X revenue from here? And then I get you to
imagine your desired state. That where you want to go. And pretty much every
product in the world is taking people from the current state to their desired
state. So even before you present the product because the product is basically
a bridge from your current state to their desired state, you need to reinforce
the current state and even reinforce the pain of being in the current state.
You need to reinforce the desired state, tell them that it is possible to go to
the desired state because others have done it. And then your product sells
naturally, because the product becomes a bridge to go from here to there. So
it's just like an elastic that you pull. You create the tension first and then
to release the tension they have to buy the product. 

That's a brilliant model. **You don't have to sell the product. You have to
sell the desired state**, because then product will be an obvious choice for
them to reach the desired state. 

Yes, the product becomes a solution and it sells automatically. So this is what
I call natural sales, and I'm trying to even trademark the term called natural
sales. I acquired naturalsales.com that's the beauty of them from the digital
marketing background. 

## Conclusion

How to become a better content creator, how to own an email list, how to start
doing an email list. Why people have less attention in today's world? What can
we do in order to grab their attention? How can we sell them better? And we
also spoke about your platform. What are you trying to do with them today and
how you get them in a funnel and in a loop where they self realize the need of
learning. When they learn they have a platform to apply and go and start making
money. If they can't, they need to upskill themselves in order to make again to
do the same thing again. 
